---
layout: post
title:      "Follow the Data!"
date:       2020-10-08 18:55:28 +0000
permalink:  follow_the_data
---

In making my Rails project application I found myself very lost, very often. How someone is supposed to fill out an input field, hit submit and then see that data displayed somewhere else comes with a great deal of configuration and planning and I found myself always asking "why can't i see what I need here, what happened to the data I just input?!" Part of the requirements for the Rails project were to utilize a nested resource and to use a class level Active Record scope method. In so doing, you would give the user access to specific data in a more efficient way, rather than have to go to three different pages to accomplish one thing. I nested resources for comments under skatespots and this gave me access to more specific routes. Instead of a new_comments_path I had access to a URL helper method **new_skatespot_comments_path** which utilizes a "*skatespot_id*" as a reference to the skatespot for a new comment. In any case, knowing how to bring that data along was my real issue. When creating a comment, for instance, being able to find it was essential, so the class method for finding an associated skatespot by it's skatespot_id instead of the comment's own ID was key. Also, when trying to bring data about the skatespot and comment from a form page to an index or show page posed a great challenge, since how you refer to this data in the URL helpers is important. For a day, a whole day, I was convinced that the method only needed a @comment object to bring along into the form to edit, when in reality, I needed the @comment object AND the @skatespot.comment object to have access to the skatespot and comment data. Ultimately PRY got me to where I was going, but understanding where to get data from, and how to refer to it on new pages was a huge take away for me.
